Adds a maintenance guide page with information on maintaining vision (#73)
NUbots/NUbook: src/book/03-guides/01-main-codebase/02-maintaining-subsystems.mdx

#### Exporting Configuration

The weights and biases will be output into a yaml file like the one found at [model.yaml on the Visual Mesh repository](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh/blob/master/example/model.yaml) or [VisualMesh.yaml on the NUbots repository](https://github.com/NUbots/NUbots/blob/master/module/vision/VisualMesh/data/config/VisualMesh.yaml).

Replace the NUbots repository `VisualMesh.yaml` configuration with the configuration you just obtained from training the Visual Mesh. Ensure you create a new branch so you can make a PR and get any changes merged in. For further information about Git, view the [Git Guide](/guides/general/git).

### Camera Calibration

If the cameras are not calibrated correctly, the vision system will not work well. Information on calibration is available on [the input page](/system/subsystems/input).

An automatic camera calibration tool is available to use in the NUbots repository that can be used to calibrate the cameras. A guide on how to calibrate the cameras will be available on NUbook soon.

### Testing

Now that the Visual Mesh has been updated in the NUbots repository, you should test it before merging.

> Build the code, ensuring `ROLE_visualmesh` is set to `ON` in `./b configure -i`. Go to the [Getting Started page](/guides/main/getting-started) to find out more on how to build the code and install onto a robot. Ensure the new configuration file has been installed. Check out the [Build System page](/system/foundations/build-system) to find out more about options when installing onto the robot.

Reviewer: I am not sure if you want this suggestion, because it might go against an intention to expose new members to `ccmake`/`./b configure -i`, but this works: `./b configure -- -DROLE_visualmesh=ON`

Author: Hm yeah they'd run that and probably have no idea what they're doing. Given they should have gone through `-i` in the Getting Started task, this might make more sense/have more context/link up better with other guides.  Particularly if they have to go to the getting started page, they might not know where it fits in with the flag.

---
section: Guides
chapter: Main Codebase
title: Maintaining Subsystems
description: How to maintain subsystems within the main codebase.
slug: /guides/main/maintaining-subsystems
---

This page details how to maintain various subsystems within the main codebase.

## Vision

> Before vision can work on the robot, odometry and kinematics must work on the robot. If these are inaccurate, then the green horizon is inaccurate.

Author: Updated this part.

### Dataset Generation

Synthetic and semi-synthetic training data for vision can be generated using NUpbr. Pre-generated datasets for training the Visual Mesh can be found on the <abbr title="Network-Attached Storage">NAS</abbr> in the lab.

#### NUpbr

> NUpbr is a Physically Based Rendering tool created in Blender. It creates semi-synthetic images with corresponding segmentation images for training.

Reviewer: I think you should link here to where to read about `segmentation images`. I certainly didn't know what they were until someone told me.

Find out how to get and use NUpbr on the [NUpbr NUbook page](/system/tools/nupbr) and the [NUpbr GitHub repository](https://github.com/NUbots/NUpbr).

#### Setting Up The Data

> The [Visual Mesh repository](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh) contains information on how to set up the datasets for training. It contains [a script](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh/blob/master/training/build_dataset.py) that takes data and converts it into the tfrecord format that the Visual Mesh expects. The script requires a folder of raw images, segmentation masks, and metadata. NUpbr will provide all these as output, and such data can be found on the NAS.

Reviewer: I think that if you're linking to the VM repo, you might as well link to the information that you're referring to.

Author: I've reworded this paragraph, and linked to stuff more closely. It was a bit out of date from old visual mesh.

### The Visual Mesh

#### Training and Testing

Go to the [NUbook Visual Mesh Getting Started guide](/guides/tools/visualmesh) to find out how to train and test a network, with an example dummy dataset.

#### Exporting Configuration

> The resulting networking should be exported to a [yaml](https://yaml.org/) file and added to the NUbots codebase.

Reviewer: The way this sentence is disconnects it from the next part, which actually follows on from it. Here is a suggestion to bring the two together
```suggestion
The resulting network should be exported to a [yaml](https://yaml.org/) file and added to the NUbots codebase, by completing the following steps.
```

Example yaml files can be found [in the Visual Mesh repository](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh/blob/master/example/model.yaml) and [in the NUbots repository](https://github.com/NUbots/NUbots/blob/master/module/vision/VisualMesh/data/config/VisualMesh.yaml). Assuming such a file is in the output directory, run

```bash

> ./mesh.py export [output_dir]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./mesh.py export <output_dir>
```

```

> to export the weights to the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to export the weights to a file in the directory `<output_dir>`.
```

> Replace the NUbots repository `VisualMesh.yaml` configuration with this configuration file. Ensure you create a new branch so you can make a PR and get any changes merged in. View the [Git Guide](/guides/general/git) for information on using Git.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the NUbots repository `VisualMesh.yaml` configuration with this configuration file. View the [Git Guide](/guides/general/git) for information on using Git and submitting this change in a pull request.
```

### Camera Calibration

The vision system cannot work optimally if the cameras are not calibrated correctly. [The input page](/system/subsystems/input) describes the camera parameters that can be calibrated.

An automatic camera calibration tool is available in the NUbots repository. See the [camera calibration guide](guides/main/camera-calibration#page-content) to find out how to use this tool.

### Testing

After updating the Visual Mesh in the NUbots repository, it should be tested before merging.

> 1. Build the code, ensuring `ROLE_visualmesh` is set to `ON` in `./b configure -i`. Go to the [Getting Started page](/guides/main/getting-started) to find out more on how to build the code and install to a robot. Ensure the new configuration file has been installed. Check out the [Build System page](/system/foundations/build-system#install) to find out more about options when installing onto the robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Build the code, ensuring `ROLE_visualmesh` is set to `ON` in `./b configure -i`, then install it to the robot. See the [Getting Started page](/guides/main/getting-started) for more information about this step. Ensure the new configuration file has been installed. Check out the [Build System page](/system/foundations/build-system#install) to find out more about options when installing onto the robot.
```

2. When your new Visual Mesh is installed onto the robot, connect to the robot using

   ```bash

>    ssh nubots@<address>

Reviewer: Please either clarify this more or link to the nubook page with more details

Author: I guess this is similar to the nano thing as well. I can link to [getting started](/guides/main/getting-started#running-on-a-real-robot) or just assume they'll search if they don't understand something, to reduce clutter. I think it might just be good to link to getting started at the beginning of the testing section.

Reviewer 2: I agree with Ysobel. Linking to the getting started guide would be the best option as these docs should be specific to maintenance for vision and don't need to be stand-alone as the idea of search and 'generic' tutorials on NUbook is that info doesn't need to get repeated.

   ```

3. Ensure NUsight is on.

   ```bash
   nano config/NetworkForwarder.yaml
   ```

   Turn `vision object` and `compressed images` on. Run NUsight using `yarn prod` and navigate to the NUsight page in your browser. More on NUsight can be found on [the NUsight NUbook page](/system/tools/nusight).

4. Run the visualmesh role

   ```bash
   ./visualmesh
   ```

5. Wait for the cameras to load and then watch the Vision tab in NUsight. To determine if the output is correct, consult the [vision page](/system/subsystems/vision) for images of the expected output.

> If you would like to see the Visual Mesh output in NUsight, you will need to log the data and run it back in NUsight using DataPlayback, since the data is too large to send over a network. See the [DataLogging and DataPlayback guide](/guides/main/data-recording-playback), considering the following:

Reviewer: "considering the following"? I don't understand

Author: I'll try to find a better phrase. It's like 'follow the steps in that guide, but use these specific things for all the general things in the guide'.

- In step 1 of Recording Data, use the [`visualmesh`](https://github.com/NUbots/NUbots/blob/master/roles/visualmesh.role) role to record the data.
- In step 2 of Recording Data and step 4 of Playing Back Data, set `message.output.CompressedImage` to `true` and add `message.vision.VisualMesh: true` in both [`DataLogging.yaml](https://github.com/NUbots/NUbots/blob/master/module/support/logging/DataLogging/data/config/DataLogging.yaml) and [`DataPlayback.yaml](https://github.com/NUbots/NUbots/blob/master/module/support/logging/DataPlayback/data/config/DataPlayback.yaml).
- In steps 1, 2 and 5 of Playing Back Data, use the [`playback`](https://github.com/NUbots/NUbots/blob/master/roles/playback.role) role to playback the data, without changes.

### Tuning Detectors

> If the Visual Mesh trained with good results but when testing in the system the network did not appear to work very well, you may need to tune the detectors.

Reviewer: I found this sentence slightly difficult

Author: Reworded it.

[BallDetector.yaml](https://github.com/NUbots/NUbots/blob/master/module/vision/BallDetector/data/config/BallDetector.yaml) and [GoalDetector.yaml](https://github.com/NUbots/NUbots/blob/master/module/vision/GoalDetector/data/config/GoalDetector.yaml) contain the values for tuning the ball and goal detectors respectively.

1. Build and install the `visualmesh` role to a robot.
2. SSH onto the robot.
3. Enable NUsight messages on the robot by running

   ```bash
   nano config/NetworkForwarder.yaml
   ```

>    and set `message.vision.Balls` and `message.vision.Goals` to `true`. This command uses the nano text editor, see this [cheatsheet](https://www.nano-editor.org/dist/latest/cheatsheet.html) for common commands.

Reviewer: You use nano before this. If you would like to link to the nano cheatsheet, I would consider putting the link at the first usage, although if you're reading this page just for this subsection, then you would miss it :shrug:

Author: Hmmmmmm we probably don't need to keep linking to a nano guide every time we use nano in NUbook. Searching 'nano' in NUbook brings up the Getting Started page as the first hit and it has a YouTube guide 🤷

4. Run NUsight using `yarn prod` on a computer. Set up NUsight using the [Getting Started page](/guides/main/getting-started) if necessary.
5. Run `./visualmesh` on the robot.

> 6. Alter the configuration file for the detectors while simultenously running the binary on the robot. In a new terminal, SSH onto the robot again and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Alter the configuration file for the detectors while simultaneously running the binary on the robot. In a new terminal, SSH onto the robot again and run:
```

   ```bash
   nano config/BallDetector.yaml
   ```

   Change the values and upon saving, the changes will be used immediately by the robot **without** needing to rebuild or rerun the `./visualmesh` binary.

7. Repeat #6 for the goal detector by running

   ```bash
   nano config/GoalDetector.yaml
   ```

> In general, it might be useful to adjust the `confidence_threshold` on both detectors to improve the results. Other variables may give better results with different values, except for `log_level` and the covariences, `goal_projection_covariance` and `ball_angular_cov`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, it might be useful to adjust the `confidence_threshold` on both detectors to improve the results. Other variables may give better results with different values, except for `log_level` and the covariances (`goal_projection_covariance` and `ball_angular_cov`).
```

---
section: Guides
chapter: Main Codebase
title: Maintaining Subsystems
description: How to maintain subsystems within the main codebase.
slug: /guides/main/maintaining-subsystems
---

This page details how to maintain various subsystems within the main codebase.

# Vision

Before vision can work on the robot, odometry and kinematics must work on the robot. If these are inaccurate, then the green horizon will be inaccurate.

## Dataset Generation

> Synthetic and semi-synthetic training data for vision can be generated using NUpbr and NUgan. Pre-generated datasets for training the Visual Mesh can be found on the Network-Attached Storage (NAS) in the lab.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Synthetic and semi-synthetic training data for vision can be generated using NUpbr and NUgan. Pre-generated datasets for training the Visual Mesh can be found on the <abbr title="Network-Attached Storage">NAS</abbr> in the lab.
```

> Datasets for training the Visual Mesh can be found on the Network-Attached Storage (NAS). If you don't have access to the NAS, ask a team leader for an account. The NAS contains millions of NUpbr training images and large TensorFlow records containing the correct data to train the Visual Mesh on.

Reviewer: This feels like the wrong place to be saying specifics about NAS access to me. I feel like this should ideally link to a page with information about the NAS and how to get access.

Author: If it seems strange, we can get rid of it. But I don't think it's worth having a completely separate page just about the NAS, there's not really a lot to say about it.

Reviewer 4: How about something like this?

```suggestion
Synthetic and semi-synthetic training data for vision can be generated using NUpbr and NUgan. Pre-generated datasets for training the Visual Mesh can be found on the Network-Attached Storage (NAS) in the lab.
```

Reviewer 3: That reads good.

### NUpbr

NUpbr is a Physically Based Rendering tool created in Blender. It creates semi-synthetic images with corresponding segmentation images for training.

> NUpbr requires Blender **2.79**. Download the appropriate file from the [Blender 2.79 Stable Release](https://download.blender.org/release/Blender2.79/).

Reviewer: Do you know if it requires that exact version? can newer versions be used? This seems to imply that this exact version is required, but that seems wrong.
I get that the README just says 2.79, but maybe its worth checking if whatever the newest version of blender can run it?

Reviewer 5: Nope, has to be exactly 2.79 :(

Reviewer 3: Yep, must be 2.79. I've got most of the work done porting to 2.8, but now there's 2.9, and soon 3.0, so... ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

Clone the [NUpbr repository](https://github.com/NUbots/NUpbr) using

```sh
git clone https://github.com/NUbots/NUpbr.git
```

> Navigate to the NUpbr directory and run

Reviewer: Should we include `cd NUpbr`? It seems a bit weird to just say "navigate".

Reviewer 4: I think it's fine, since it's more of a broad overview, though we could possibly reword it as "NUpbr can be run using ... from within the NUpbr directory, for more details see the [NUpbr page]"

Author: I'm just gonna link to the NUpbr NUbook page and repo, seems like a better idea so if anything changes in NUpbr we're not having to change too many things.

```sh

> blender --python pbr.py

Reviewer: This seems platform specific to Linux/Macos/WSL, but it doesn't mention that anywhere. Would this work on normal windows as is? Maybe it would, with git bash? not sure though. Also, this makes an assumption that blender is in $PATH, which might(?) have to be done manually for macs (I have no idea about windows).

```

Find out more about NUpbr and how to edit the parameters on the [NUpbr NUbook page](/system/tools/nupbr).

### NUgan

The NUbots CycleGAN performs style transfer from the semi-synthetic style to a real image style. It creates more realistic images from the semi-synthetic images from NUpbr. It can be used for style transfer to a specific field for fine-tuning vision.

Clone the [NUgan repository](https://github.com/NUbots/NUgan) using

```sh

> git clone https://github.com/NUbots/NUgan.git

Reviewer: It seems a bit strange to me to include one step of using NUgan, then send users to the repo docs anyway. I feel like you could remove this, and keep the rest, or add more steps as well.

Reviewer 4: Yeah, it's currently redundant to have the link to the NUgan repo three times in three lines. It is somewhat convenient to have a copy paste link for cloning the repo though. One of the links to the github repo could probably be replaced with a link to a NUgan NUbook page.

```

The [NUgan repository](https://github.com/NUbots/NUgan) details how to train, test and generate images.

> NUpbr images can be found on the NAS for the A datasets. The B dataset can be obtained by taking pictures, or collecting images from [BitBots ImageTagger](https://imagetagger.bit-bots.de/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NUpbr images can be found on the NAS for the A datasets. The B dataset can be obtained by taking pictures, or collecting images from [Bit-Bots ImageTagger](https://imagetagger.bit-bots.de/).
```

> NUpbr images can be found on the NAS for the A datasets. The B dataset can be obtained by taking pictures, or collecting images from [BitBots ImageTagger](https://imagetagger.bit-bots.de/).

Reviewer: taking pictures of what?

### Setting Up The Data

> The [Visual Mesh repository](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh) contains information on how to set up the datasets. It contains [a script](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh/blob/master/training/build_dataset.py) that takes data and converts it into the tfrecord format that the Visual Mesh expects. The script requires a folder of raw images, segmentation masks, and metadata. NUpbr will provide all these as output, and such data can be found on the NAS. If using output from NUgan, use the corresponding NUpbr segmentation masks and metadata, and add in the generated NUgan images in the image folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Visual Mesh repository](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh) contains information on how to set up the datasets. It contains [a script](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh/blob/master/training/build_dataset.py) that takes data and converts it into the [tfrecord format](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/load_data/tfrecord) that the Visual Mesh expects. The script requires a folder of raw images, segmentation masks, and metadata. NUpbr will provide all these as output, and such data can be found on the NAS. If using output from NUgan, use the corresponding NUpbr segmentation masks and metadata, and add in the generated NUgan images in the image folder.
```

> The [Visual Mesh repository](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh) contains information on how to set up the datasets. It contains [a script](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh/blob/master/training/build_dataset.py) that takes data and converts it into the tfrecord format that the Visual Mesh expects. The script requires a folder of raw images, segmentation masks, and metadata. NUpbr will provide all these as output, and such data can be found on the NAS. If using output from NUgan, use the corresponding NUpbr segmentation masks and metadata, and add in the generated NUgan images in the image folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Visual Mesh repository](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh) contains information on how to set up the datasets. It contains [a script](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh/blob/master/training/build_dataset.py) that takes data and converts it into the tfrecord format that the Visual Mesh expects. The script requires a folder of raw images, segmentation masks, and metadata. NUpbr will provide all these as output, and such data can be found on the NAS. If using output from NUgan, use the corresponding NUpbr segmentation masks and metadata, and add the generated NUgan images to the image folder.
```

## The Visual Mesh

### Training

Ensure you have followed the above steps to get a dataset to train on.

> As specified in the [Visual Mesh repository README](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh), install the dependencies from `requirements.txt`.

Reviewer: I can't see that on the README, quick start guide, or setup? Am I missing something?

Author: This needs to be updated for the new Visual Mesh.

```sh

> pip3 install -r requirements

Reviewer: The above comment says `requirements.txt`, but this just says `requirements`

```

Using [`cmake`](https://cmake.org/) and a C++ compiler with C++11 or later, build the custom TensorFlow op.

```sh
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make

> ```

Reviewer 6: I would recommend using the docker image/container rather than installing and building locally.

A yaml file must be created with options for training. An example of this is in [the example_net.yaml file](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh/blob/master/example_net.yaml).

Execute the training by running

```sh
./mesh.py train [config.yaml] [output_dir]
```

> Where `[config.yaml]` is the options yaml file as specified above, and the output directory is the name of the directory you want the progress and results to be saved to. Progress can be monitored with TensorBoard.

Reviewer 6: Put the config file in the output directory and run 
```
./mesh.py train [output_dir]
```

As I side note, the general convention that I am aware of for specifying command line parameters is (not sure if this is actually a thing, or just a thing that I like)
```
./mesh.py <required argument> [optional argument]
```

(also, run in docker)

### Testing

Testing the network is executed similarly to training. Run

```sh
./mesh.py test [config.yaml] [output_dir]
```

> Where `[config.yaml]` and `[output_dir]` are the same as for training. The output will be the average precision for each class, as well as the precision/recall curves and the final mean average precision.

Reviewer 6: Same comments as for the train command

### Exporting Configuration

> The weights and biases will be output into a yaml file like the one found at [model.yaml on the Visual Mesh repository](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh/blob/master/example/model.yaml) or [VisualMesh.yaml on the NUbots repository](https://github.com/NUbots/NUbots/blob/master/module/vision/VisualMesh/data/config/VisualMesh.yaml).

Reviewer 6: To export the weights you need to run
```
./mesh.py export [output_dir]
```

assuming the config file is in the output directory

Replace the NUbots repository `VisualMesh.yaml` configuration with the configuration you just obtained from training the Visual Mesh. Ensure you create a new branch so you can make a PR and get any changes merged in. For further information about Git, view the [Git Guide](/guides/general/git).

## Camera Calibration

If the cameras are not calibrated correctly, the vision system will not work well. Information on calibration is available on [the input page](/system/subsystems/input).

> An automatic camera calibration tool is available to use in the NUbots repository that can be used to calibrate the cameras. A guide on how to calibrate the cameras will be available on NUbook soon.

Reviewer: what's the name of the calibration tool? That should probably be mentioned here. Also, I should add it to the glossary

Reviewer 3: I think it's just called "calibration tool" 😅

Reviewer: I'll add it to the glossary then hahaha

## Testing

Now that the Visual Mesh has been updated in the NUbots repository, you should test it before merging.

> Build the code, ensuring `VisualMesh.role` is on in `./b configure -i`. Go to the [Getting Started page](/guides/main/getting-started) to find out more on how to build the code and install onto a robot. Ensure the new configuration file has been installed. Check out the [Build System page](/system/foundations/build-system) to find out more about options when installing onto the robot.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Build the code, ensuring `ROLE_visualmesh` is set to `ON` in `./b configure -i`. Go to the [Getting Started page](/guides/main/getting-started) to find out more on how to build the code and install onto a robot. Ensure the new configuration file has been installed. Check out the [Build System page](/system/foundations/build-system) to find out more about options when installing onto the robot.
```

When your new Visual Mesh is installed onto the robot, connect to the robot and ensure NUsight is on.

```sh
nano config/NUsight.yaml
```

Turn `vision object` and `compressed images` on. Run NUsight using `yarn prod` and navigate to the NUsight page in your browser. More on NUsight can be found on [the NUsight page](/system/tools/nusight).

Run the visualmesh role

```sh

> ./visualmesh

Reviewer: wouldn't you do `./b run visualmesh`?

Reviewer 3: If you're running on the robot it'll just be `./visualmesh`.

Reviewer: Oh, I missed the part where it said connect to the robot :sweat_smile:

```

Wait for the cameras to load and then watch the Vision tab in NUsight. To determine if the output is correct, consult the [vision page](/system/subsystems/vision) for images of the expected output.

> If you would like to see the visual mesh output in NUsight, you will need to log the data and run it back in NUsight using DataPlayback, since the data is too large to send over a network. Add into the `visualmesh.role` file `support::logging::DataLogging`. Build to the robot and rerun the visual mesh binary with `./visualmesh`. An NBS file will be created on the robot in `logs/visualmesh/`. Copy this across the network to the computer you built on using `scp <robot_address>:logs/visualmesh/<file_name> ./recordings` on the computer in the NUbots folder. Read [the Logging page](/system/subsystems/logging) to find out how to play an NBS file back.

Reviewer: Should we mention that the expect framerate of the visualmesh footage viewed through NUsight is terrible? One might think that something was wrong with what they were doing, when it's really just a question of the bandwidth iirc.

Author: That's pretty much what the paragraph above says, you can't run it in realtime on NUsight because it's too large to send over a network so log it and play it back.

Reviewer 6: Another alternative to this is to use the nbs playback functionality in nusight

Author: There is standalone NUsight functionality to play back an NBS file?

Author: NUsight NBS playback seems to not work great, error'd after a few loops when I tried it. Until it's fixed or someone proves it works (and I missed something) I won't document it here 😞

### The Visual Mesh

#### Training and Testing

Go to the [NUbook Visual Mesh Getting Started guide](/guides/tools/visualmesh) to find out how to train and test a network, with an example dummy dataset.

#### Exporting Configuration

The resulting networking will need to be exported to a yaml file and added to the NUbots codebase.

Example yaml files are [model.yaml on the Visual Mesh repository](https://github.com/Fastcode/VisualMesh/blob/master/example/model.yaml) and [VisualMesh.yaml on the NUbots repository](https://github.com/NUbots/NUbots/blob/master/module/vision/VisualMesh/data/config/VisualMesh.yaml). Assuming such a file is in the output directory, run

```bash
./mesh.py export [output_dir]

> ```

Author: Is this right @Bidski?
